src/docs/colors.mdx, before:

# Brand Colors

The user interface components use the predefined color range of the [Swiss Confederation Web Guidelines](https://swiss.github.io/styleguide/en/general.html#02-general-02-colors) in order to ensure its familiartiy with other Confederation websites.

### Confederation Colors

#### Red Shades

<ColorSpecimen name="Venetian Red" value="#DC0018" span={2} />
<ColorSpecimen name="Red" value="#F7001D" span={2} />

#### Blue Shades

<ColorSpecimen name="Cerulean" value="#006699" span={2} />
<ColorSpecimen name="Cerulean (Hover)" value="#005580" span={2} />

### Monochrome

<ColorPaletteSpecimen
  horizontal
  colors={[
    { name: "100 White", value: "#FFFFFF" },
    { name: "200 Smoke", value: "#F5F5F5" },
    { name: "300 Gainsboro", value: "#E5E5E5" },
    { name: "400 Light-Grey", value: "#D5D5D5" },
    { name: "500 Silver", value: "#CCCCCC" },
    { name: "600 Empress", value: "#757575" },
    { name: "700 Coal", value: "#454545" },
    { name: "800 Night Rider", value: "#333333" },
    { name: "900 Black", value: "#000000" },
  ]}
/>

### Additional Shades

<ColorPaletteSpecimen
  horizontal
  colors={[
    { name: "Clear Day", value: "#F2F7F9" },
    { name: "Solitude", value: "#E7EDEF" },
    { name: "Pattens Blue", value: "#D8E8EF" },
    { name: "Malibu", value: "#66AFE9" },
    { name: "Mocassin", value: "#FFFAB2" },
  ]}
/>

### Alert Colors

These colors should be used to display notifications or alerts, as described on the [Swiss Confederation Web Guidelines](https://swiss.github.io/styleguide/en/widgets.html).

<ColorPaletteSpecimen
  span={1}
  vertical
  colors={[
    { name: "Success (Text)", value: "#3c763d" },
    { name: "Success (BG)", value: "#DFF0D8" },
  ]}
/>
<ColorPaletteSpecimen
  span={1}
  vertical
  colors={[
    { name: "Info (Text)", value: "#31708f" },
    { name: "Info (BG)", value: "#d9edf7" },
  ]}
/>
<ColorPaletteSpecimen
  span={1}
  vertical
  colors={[
    { name: "Warning (Text)", value: "#8a6d3b" },
    { name: "Warning (BG)", value: "#fffab2" },
  ]}
/>
<ColorPaletteSpecimen
  span={1}
  vertical
  colors={[
    { name: "Danger (Text)", value: "#a82824" },
    { name: "Danger (BG)", value: "#f2dede" },
  ]}
/>

# Chart Colors

Separate from the interface colors, the colors defined below are used to encode information in the various data visualizations.

### Diverging Colors

The price color scale encodes the divergence from the Swiss median.

<ColorPaletteSpecimen
  horizontal
  colors={[
    { name: "Dark green", value: "#24B39C" },
    { name: "Light Green", value: "#A8DC90" },
    { name: "Yellow", value: "#E7EC83" },
    { name: "Light Red", value: "#F1B865" },
    { name: "Dark Red", value: "#D64B47" },
  ]}
/>

### Categorical Colors

These colors are used to differentiate the selected entities in the comparison view.

<ColorPaletteSpecimen
  horizontal
  colors={[
    { value: "#7FC6FF" },
    { value: "#7286FF" },
    { value: "#CE9FF0" },
    { value: "#E780B6" },
    { value: "#EA8181" },
  ]}
/>

Commit message:

Design documentation (#7)
* content: add placeholder mockups

* docs: add hero image

* content: add invision prototype

* fix: rename design concept > Mockups

* docs: add links on introduction page

* docs: colors

* fix: add prototype date

* docs: add design mockups

* docs: add explanations to mockups

* docs: update wording

* content: update mockups

* fix: prototype date

* fix: mockups

src/docs/colors.mdx, after:

# Brand Colors

The user interface components use the predefined color range of the [Swiss Confederation Web Guidelines](https://swiss.github.io/styleguide/en/general.html#02-general-02-colors) in order to ensure its familiartiy with other Confederation websites.

### Confederation Colors

#### Red Shades

<ColorSpecimen name="Venetian Red" value="#DC0018" span={2} />
<ColorSpecimen name="Red" value="#F7001D" span={2} />

#### Blue Shades

<ColorSpecimen name="Cerulean" value="#006699" span={2} />
<ColorSpecimen name="Cerulean (Hover)" value="#005580" span={2} />

### Monochrome

<ColorPaletteSpecimen
  horizontal
  colors={[
    { name: "100 White", value: "#FFFFFF" },
    { name: "200 Smoke", value: "#F5F5F5" },
    { name: "300 Gainsboro", value: "#E5E5E5" },
    { name: "400 Light-Grey", value: "#D5D5D5" },
    { name: "500 Silver", value: "#CCCCCC" },
    { name: "600 Empress", value: "#757575" },
    { name: "700 Coal", value: "#454545" },
    { name: "800 Night Rider", value: "#333333" },
    { name: "900 Black", value: "#000000" },
  ]}
/>

### Additional Shades

<ColorPaletteSpecimen
  horizontal
  colors={[
    { name: "Clear Day", value: "#F2F7F9" },
    { name: "Solitude", value: "#E7EDEF" },
    { name: "Pattens Blue", value: "#D8E8EF" },
    { name: "Malibu", value: "#66AFE9" },
    { name: "Mocassin", value: "#FFFAB2" },
  ]}
/>

### Alert Colors

These colors should be used to display notifications or alerts, as described on the [Swiss Confederation Web Guidelines](https://swiss.github.io/styleguide/en/widgets.html).

<ColorPaletteSpecimen
  span={1}
  vertical
  colors={[
    { name: "Success (Text)", value: "#3c763d" },
    { name: "Success (BG)", value: "#DFF0D8" },
  ]}
/>
<ColorPaletteSpecimen
  span={1}
  vertical
  colors={[
    { name: "Info (Text)", value: "#31708f" },
    { name: "Info (BG)", value: "#d9edf7" },
  ]}
/>
<ColorPaletteSpecimen
  span={1}
  vertical
  colors={[
    { name: "Warning (Text)", value: "#8a6d3b" },
    { name: "Warning (BG)", value: "#fffab2" },
  ]}
/>
<ColorPaletteSpecimen
  span={1}
  vertical
  colors={[
    { name: "Danger (Text)", value: "#a82824" },
    { name: "Danger (BG)", value: "#f2dede" },
  ]}
/>

# Chart Colors

Separate from the interface colors, the colors defined below are used to encode information in the various data visualizations.

### Diverging Colors

The price color scale encodes the divergence from the Swiss median.

<ColorPaletteSpecimen
  horizontal
  colors={[
    { name: "Dark green", value: "#24B39C" },
    { name: "Light Green", value: "#A8DC90" },
    { name: "Yellow", value: "#E7EC83" },
    { name: "Light Red", value: "#F1B865" },
    { name: "Dark Red", value: "#D64B47" },
  ]}
/>

### Categorical Colors

These colors are used to differentiate the selected entities in the comparison view.

<ColorPaletteSpecimen
  horizontal
  colors={[
    { value: "#64AFE9" },
    { value: "#01ADA1" },
    { value: "#939CB4" },
    { value: "#91C34B" },
    { value: "#E89F00" },
  ]}
/>

### Color Refinements

These proposed colors are based on the Swiss Confederation Web Guidelines, as well as the ElCom design guidelines.

They comply with a Level AA accessibility.

<ImageSpecimen src="./docs/styleguide/styleguide_colors.png" plain />
